.TH DOWNLOAD 1
.SH NAME
download \- load program into SUN test machine 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B download
[ option ] ...
[ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Download
takes an absolute binary program image (SUN a.out format)
and copies it to the frontend file
.I /tftpboot/a.out
for the backend sun to use when booting.
.I Download
determines which backend SUN the user has reserved, or finds a free
backend SUN if the user does not have a backend SUN reserved.  Once
a backend is found,
.I download
uses TCP to send the binary program image to the associated front end.
Note that local net broadcasts are used to find free backend SUNs
so downloading is only allowed to SUNs connected to the local net.
There is one exception to this rule.  You may download from a frontend on a
remote net to a frontend running a BED server on the local net if the
frontend on the remote net has a bedservers file which lists all of the
frontends running BED servers.  
.PP
Loading the object program takes time proportional to the size
of the program itself.
In two seconds, download will transfer about 56K bytes over the ethernet
using TCP.
.PP
.I Download
transfers the user's program as specified in the command line.
If no program name is given,
.I a.out
is used.
.PP
Options are:
.TP
.BI \-c "CLASS"
Class.
Use a machine in the class
.I CLASS.
The default class is SUN.
If the user already has a backend reserved in class
.I CLASS,
then it will be used. 
If no machines are available in class
.I CLASS
a message indicating this will be printed.
See also
.I busers,
which displays which class each backend machine belongs to.
.TP
.BI \-m "MACH"
Machine.
Use the backend machine named
.I MACH
if it is available.
A user may now reserve two or more machines at once.  The first machine
they reserve will not automatically be released like the original version
of the software used to do.  Moreover,  the tty line and the user name are
used to make a reservation.  This means that a user can download to two
different backend machines from two different
windows on his workstation, and the reservation system will remember which
window is associated with each backend.  If you want to download to two
different backends from the same window, then you must specify the desired
backend each time, or the reservation system will automatically download to
the backend that you used most recently in that window.
.TP
.BI \-v 
Verbose.
The verbose option will print messages indicating what the program is
currently doing.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
busers(1), odt(1), odtunlock(1)
.SH FILES
.ta 1.6i
/tmp/xinu/*   Local lock files.  Named by user's login id
.ta 1i
/usr/xinu/database/bedservers  List of BED servers if on
.ta 1i
                               on remote net
.SH BUGS
Currently it only works to download to a backend SUN.  You can
download from a frontend SUN or VAX.  In future versions
you will be able to download from anything to anything.
