.TH PM 1
.SH NAME
pm \- Xinu post mortem debugger
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pm
[
.B -p
]
[
.B -s
]
[
.B -t
]
[
.I txtfil
[
.I corfil
]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pm
performs a post mortem given a core image from a \s-2Sun\s0
running Xinu.
It takes as input the memory image (in \s-2Sun\s0 a.out format) that was
\fIdownload\fRed,
uploads the core image
(in \s-2Sun\s0 core format) from the Sun,
and prints the following information:
.IP
Differences between the text portions (program instruction areas)
of the file before downloading and after uploading.
Except for interrupt vectors which are initialized at run-time,
differences indicate that instructions were accidentally overwritten.
.IP
C traceback of the executing process, based on Xinu's
.I currpid.
.IP
C traceback of all other processes.
.IP
The status of all semaphores.
If a semaphore is in use and the count indicates
that there are processes waiting, the 
list of waiting processes is printed along
with an actual count.
Backward links are checked for consistency.
.IP
The status of tty devices, including the buffer head and tail
pointers along with buffer contents.
.PP
By default,
.I pm
takes the downloaded image from file
.I pm.out,
and produces all of the above output.
.I Pm
always prints information about the current process.
If the following flags are present,
.I pm
prints only the information requested.
.TP
.B -p
dump the process table.
.TP
.B -s
dump the semaphore table.
.TP
.B -t
dump the tty tables.
.TP
.B -m
check for overwritten text
.TP
.B -r
print a stack trace of all processes
.TP
.B -v
give verbose messages
.PP
Optional arguments
.I txtfil
and
.I corfil
can be specified to change the files used as the downloaded and
uploaded image.
.SH SEE ALSO
download(1), upload(1)
.SH BUGS
\f2Pm\f1 may fault when given garbage files (e.g., a badly damaged
core file) because it references
symbols in the core image based on values obtained from the a.out
file without checking their validity.
