.TH ODT 1
.SH NAME
odt \- connect user's terminal to a backend \s-2SUN's\s0 console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odt
[ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Odt
connects a terminal on the SUN (or VAX)
to a backend SUN's console line so the output
of the backend SUN appears on the terminal screen and characters
typed at the 
keyboard are sent to the backend SUN.
\f2Odt\f1 sets the backend SUN's tty line to raw mode, and the SUN
(or VAX) terminal to 
cbreak mode.
The connection can be broken by killing the odt process (e.g., by
typing the interrupt character (e.g., CONTROL-C).
.PP
When \f2odt\f1 receives a backslash from the terminal,
it switches to raw mode to read
one character, after which it switches back to cbreak mode.
The backslash escape allows the user to send characters like CONTROL-C
to the backend SUN even though they are normally interpreted as signals.
As a special case, an escaped null character (octal 0) causes \f2odt\f1
to force the backend SUN line into a break condition for 1 second.
This is useful for halting the processor and trapping to the SUN monitor
program.
.PP
Options are:
.TP
.BI \-c "CLASS"
Class. Connect to a machine in the class
.I CLASS
if one is available.  The default class is SUN.  If the user
already has a machine
reserved in the class
.I CLASS,
then the reserved machine
will be used. 
If no machines are available in the specified class
then a message to that effect will be printed.
.TP
.BI \-m "MACH"
Machine.
Use the backend SUN named
.I MACH
if it is available.
A user may now reserve two or more machines at once.  The first machine
they reserve will not automatically be released like the original version
of the software used to do.  Moreover,  the tty line and the user name are
used to make a reservation.  This means that a user can odt to two
different backend machines from two different
windows on his workstation, and the reservation system will remember which
window is associated with each backend.  If you want to odt to two
different backends from the same window, then you must specify the desired
backend each time, or the reservation system will automatically odt to
the backend that you used most recently in that window.
If machine
.I MACH
is unavailable, then a message to that effect will be printed.
.TP
.BI \-v 
Verbose.
The verbose option will print messages indicating what the program is
currently doing.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
busers(1), download(1), odtunlock(1)
.SH FILES
.ta 1i
/tmp/xinu/*   Local lock files.  Named by user's login id
.ta 1i
/usr/xinu/database/bedservers  List of BED servers if on
.ta 1i
                               on remote net
.SH BUGS
Avoid suspending odt (CONTROL-Z) if possible since it will leave the
terminal line in cbreak mode.


